rust/README.md, before:

# Rust Webserver

The aim of this project is to test a number of things using Rust:

### Complete ✅

- Rust webserver using Axum
- Compile-time checked SQL statements for a PostgreSQL database, using [`sqlx`](https://github.com/launchbadge/sqlx)
- OpenAPI spec generation using [`utoipa`](https://github.com/juhaku/utoipa)
- Scalar API client

### Todo 🔮

- More endpoints
- More interesting tables

## Setup

1. Install the `sqxl` cli:

```sh
cargo install sqlx-cli --no-default-features --features native-tls,postgres
```

2. Run Postgres in the background using docker compose:

```sh
docker-compose up -d
```

3. Create the database:

```sh
sqlx db create
```

4. Run sql migrations

```sh
(cd sqlx_lib && sqlx migrate run)
```

## Build/Run

If the database structure changes or we add new queries in code, the query metadata will need to be updated by running `cargo sqlx prepare --workspace`. The build uses the cached queries in the `.sqlx`folder, this can be switched off using the `SQLX_OFFLINE`variable in the `.env`file.

`cargo build` to build all projects.

`cargo run -p webserver` to run the webserver. This can be tested locally using the available endpoints, for example:

- [/](localhost:3000)
- [/all](localhost:3000/all)
- [/health](localhost:300/health)

A scalar page is provided at [/scalar](localhost:3000/scalar).

`cargo run -p rust_exe` to run an executable that will clear the database table and add a single row back in.

Commit message:

Export open-api doc and check latest version into source control (#7)
- Refactor so we can get the open API doc without a connection to the database
- Unit test to create the open API doc, export, and compare with the version in source
- Commit the latest open api doc
(N.B. linux build currently failing due to fsharp package conflict - not important enough to fix right now)

rust/README.md, after:

# Rust Webserver

The aim of this project is to test a number of things using Rust:

### Complete ✅

- Rust webserver using Axum
- Compile-time checked SQL statements for a PostgreSQL database, using [`sqlx`](https://github.com/launchbadge/sqlx)
- OpenAPI spec generation using [`utoipa`](https://github.com/juhaku/utoipa)
- Scalar API client

### Todo 🔮

- More endpoints
- More interesting tables

## Setup

1. Install the `sqxl` cli:

```sh
cargo install sqlx-cli --no-default-features --features native-tls,postgres
```

2. Run Postgres in the background using docker compose:

```sh
docker-compose up -d
```

3. Create the database:

```sh
sqlx db create
```

4. Run sql migrations

```sh
(cd sqlx_lib && sqlx migrate run)
```

## Build/Run

If the database structure changes or we add new queries in code, the query metadata will need to be updated by running `cargo sqlx prepare --workspace`. The build uses the cached queries in the `.sqlx`folder, this can be switched off using the `SQLX_OFFLINE`variable in the `.env`file.

`cargo build` to build all projects.

`cargo run -p webserver` to run the webserver. This can be tested locally using the available endpoints, for example:

- [/](localhost:3000)
- [/all](localhost:3000/all)
- [/health](localhost:3000/health)

A scalar page is provided at [/scalar](localhost:3000/scalar).

`cargo run -p rust_exe` to run an executable that will clear the database table and add a single row back in.

## Test

`cargo test --release`

> The test step outputs the latest OpenAPI doc and compares against the version in source.
